# Project BioniDKU - More information

## What is an IDKU?
### Definition
**IDKU** (short for <ins>"I don't know Update"</ins>) is a type of Windows 10 installation that has all the differences between all existing Windows 10 Feature Updates/Versions stripped out or hidden. The point of which is to challenge you to use the operating system without knowing its version, and to surprise you in the end by revealing its identity.

Windows features that have differences will either be restricted, synchronized or replaced with alternatives. This is done using various methods, mainly registry tweaks and group policies. The script's purpose is to automate this entire process as much as possible, as doing all of them manually can be a great pain.

IDKUs are rendered **insecure** due to many of Windows security features having differences and therefore had to be removed. The OS will not have any password protection, no UAC, no Windows Update and no Windows Defender. Challenge participants should consider using IDKUs as a secondary OS, or increase protection of any online account signed in to them to avoid any possible security compromises.
### Origin
This kind of challenge was formed by Julia and her friends back in 2020. Back then a domain was used to "IDKUlize" the installations as there were no scripts. Then Sunryze started working on a script in the following year, calling it "**AutoIDKU**", and the script was widely used until around June 2022 when he decided to empty the source repository, rendering the script unusable due to its dependence on files stored there. The story below this section is about how I came up with the idea of reviving it and how I made it possible.

By the way, if you do notice the number `2210x` before the version number in places of this project, well that's the ID of this project (I have a weird project management/identification system and the IDs are just one part of it).

## The backstory
Back in October 2022, I was making an IDKU for a friend, a few months after the original script broke down. As I was in desperate need of a working script and had a local copy of [this commit](https://github.com/sunryze-git/AutoIDKU/tree/8f12315e667a36eb18f412eae669a86e6aeccc70), I decided to pull it out and began resurrecting it, first by rerouting all calls to the empty repository back to local files, then rearranged the subsidary script files (which I then called "modules") in a way so they're reachable by the main script. And I was surprised when it worked like magic (well of course, with problems). So I showed my friends - or I should call the *IDKU gangs* - the working script. They were surprised too, and asked if I could refine it further, and I was like "sure". So the first few versions of this script was bascially just me trying to get it fully working and fixing things. 

But fixing the script alone just isn't my style, so I began to bring my ideas into the script, and this is where things started to flourish.

At the beginning, changes were mostly cosmetic (like swapping the wallpaper, renaming the music library, the new name **BioniDKU** (<ins>Bioni</ins>c AutoI<ins>DKU</ins>), and so on). But eventually I started to understand the architecture of the script as I read through it several times, and then some life-changing changes would start to appear. I saw the current problem with the orignal script was it wasn't fully automated: there were still manually-required actions every so often during execution, script couldn't restart itself, and more actions still need to be taken post-execution. I then split the current work from a folder in a VM into a seperate project, took all my experiences learned from past experiments and began implemeting them into the script, aiming to get it as fully automated as possible. In doing so, I also added some useful programs, for example PENetwork Manager to replace the broken network icon; bumped the music library with a slew of songs; made the script's interface more colorful and more easily distinguishable between script's messages and PowerShell's system messages; and finally did an overhaul on the script's folder structe. And finally on the 4th of December 2022, the whole project landed on GitHub after weeks being on OneDrive. 

And I couldn't get everything here without some help from those friends. They have been running back-to-back tests on all versions of Windows 10 and gave me reports as I was leading up to the first re-debut of the project. Without them, it could have took me months to get everything done instead of 2 weeks!